---
title: Challenging The Challenged
date: 2017-10-26
category: "english"
---

As a student in the United States and a user on the world wide web, I have been able to read books about ponies and ones which insult our leaders. I have a sort of "f-read-om" that many others do not have. Instead, those individuals are unable to read some literature as a result of book bans caused by their apparent "controversies." Notable banned or challenged novels include _I Am Jazz_, _Looking For Alaska_, _Eleanor and Park_, _The House On Mango Street_, _The Perks of Being a Wallflower_, and _The Giver_. These books receive criticism as they feature transgender children, homosexuality, explicit language, and violence. Out of these books, I have only read _The House On Mango Street_ and _The Giver_. When I read these books, I could not find a reason for controversy. Sure, these two books feature dark topics such as sexual assault and "release," however, these topics allow the author to drive home the messages of the novels. As such, I am unable to understand how "young adults" can read a book such as the Bible which features intense and gruesome violence, rape, and mass genocide whereas a story warning about the dangers of conformity is banned. Nonetheless, I simply do not agree with the banning of books, even with the Bible or _Mein Kampf_. Of course, we should not drill the ideologies of _Mein Kampf_ within the heads of "young adults," nevertheless, it is important that we realize the wrongs of the past and make sure not to repeat them. Additionally, banning books only fuels the desire to obtain them. This phenomenon compares to the explosion of the "gay clown Putin" meme which emphasizes to "stop homophobia" following the Kremlin's banning of said meme. Evidently, banning or trying to prevent something only furthers its popularity. On the other hand, I would not put my life in danger to prompt or read a banned work because I am afraid of the consequences. If the consequences entailed teasing from other students, I would read the works. However, my line ends with military action or any other consequence which may or may not result in my funeral. Truthfully speaking, I am a self-aware coward and would like to keep my life very much thank you. As such, I respect those who put aside their well-being to fight for "f-read-om" and allow individuals to read "controversial" books. In short, reading banned and challenged books are important but so is my life.
