---
title: The Alarming Truth
date: 2018-7-2
category: "english"
---

Self-preservation is at the heart of human nature. Natural selection has taught homo sapiens to act most favorably for themselves. As such, when individuals face potential risk, they are unwilling to take it. Often, bystanders who happen to cross a crime scene do not act and hope other individuals will take care of the situation. However, when everyone fears for themselves, consequences ensue. Similarly, I would remain silent as a prairie dog in the face of predators because I value my survival over the collective good. Although seemingly selfish, my actions are not irrational. In the original trolley problem, a train approaches and individuals are asked to either flip the train lever, killing one railroad worker or letting the train through the track, slaughtering three railroad workers. Objectively, flipping the lever makes the most sense. Nevertheless, flipping the switch causes the individual to be held responsible for a loss of life and diverts fate. Vsauce, a popular youtube channel, recreated a real-life trolley-experiment and discovered that most participants let the train through. Also, the study found that participants first tried to obtain external help. They explained their inaction through their shock and fear of responsibility. Despite what reason says, we are still prone to our instinct for survival. Moreover, this scenario also mirrors a story about a group of Jewish individuals hiding during World War II. A baby in the group beings crying and forces the group to either kill the baby to protect themselves or permit the child's unyielding cries. How can we justify sacrificing one life for others? Numbers are numbers, but one life is still a life. In the end, people can say what they want about putting others first. However, they are not morally in the right and will not be able to overcome their preservation instincts. Good luck my fellow prairie dogs!
