---
title: The Uncovering of the Shrew
date: 2017-01-11
category: "english"
---

Before I read Shakespeare's _The Taming of the Shrew_, which centers around the "shrew" Katarina and her struggle for dominance with her "gold-digging" husband Petruchio, I had heard that it negatively portrayed vocal women. In addition, the play even stirred controversy when it first released, in a time where disagreeing with one's husband can be seen as treason. As a result, I initially viewed this "humor" as an ignorant piece of literature which reinforces patriarchy. Maybe Shakespeare was a sexist writer who simply desired to subordinate women. On the other hand, knowing the complexity of his previous works, _The Taming of the Shrew_ may actually be a satire on the patriarchal views of women at the time. Shakespeare married an older woman (might have influenced overbearing nature of Katarina) and upon his death bequeathed to her his "second-best bed with the furniture." Although degrading in today's culture, beds (especially those belonging to the rich) in Shakespeare's time were very valuable. Nevertheless, those unfamiliar with Shakespeare may see the posters (on http://mccandlessblog.blogspot.com/2018/01/production-values.html) of _Taming of the Shrew_ as a representation of the novel's sexist tendencies; articulate women are not desirable women, women should be under the control of men, and men are better than women. Many of the posters portray a man, Petruchio, attempting to tame his giant wife, Katarina, keeping himself from being consumed by her large mouth, or acting as a muzzle in order to suppress his talkative wife. Evidently, these posters paint the picture of a hero husband who toils to control his out-of-control wife. The poster that intrigued me the most was the one in which a man and a woman, in the shape of a heart, whose snake tongues intertwine. While the other posters demonstrate a power struggle, this poster reveals an underlying love which the couple has despite their constant in-fighting. This love-hate relationship adds another layer to this seemingly straightforward tale about a rebellious woman.
