---
title: A Non-Fictional Fiction
date: 2017-11-16
category: "english"
---

As a result of conversions with my grandparents, who had lived through the cultural revolution, pictures circulated online, and reading books depicting communist societies such as *Animal Farm*, I envisioned the cultural revolution as one of bloodshed, government-controlled lives, and ignorance. Although *Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress* by Dai Sijie did not feature bloodshed per se (torture was shown), the extensive control of the communist party and the fear of books (knowledge) are evident. In addition, the novel helped me realize that in spite of communist reinforcement on commonality, the villages still intently seek out the tailor in hopes of wearing better clothes. Dai Sijie's usage of imagery (depicting the scene of the tailor's arrival) brings out to light the idea of inherent individualism. Moreover, Dai Sijie utilizes the seemingly real struggles of the main character to better connect readers to the tale, thus further emphasizing party control and the banishment of knowledge. If I had read a non-fictional story about the cultural revolution, I do not believe I would be able to learn as much as I would reading this fictional text. Despite being an apparent fiction, the true-to-life experiences and scenes (including drama) help make the event seem as it was real. In contrast, many non-fiction texts do not hold the same level of emotional connection and usually objectify the event, making it harder to relate to. Ironically, it seems that the fictional tales are more real than non-fictional ones.
