---
title: A Practical Meal
date: 2018-4-4
category: "english"
---

The Ni family eats in a relatively standard manner. Instead of pizza or hamburgers like most American families, my family usually eats rice with a variety of fulfilling dishes. At dinner, we have a policy of no phones and the usage "public" chopsticks and spoons for food distribution. Unlike other families, however, my parents often emphasize holding onto the rice bowl with at least one hand at all times. Without this measure, my father, in particular, believes that we may accidentally knock over our meals and cause disorder at dinner. Also, my family begins dinner only when elders or guests are ready to eat. This practice stems from the Chinese culture of deference towards elders and guests. Moreover, we rarely talk as a family at the dinner table. My family believes that dinner should be fast and silent as everyone is busy. Still, the "normal" elements of my family's dinner etiquettes and traditions have prepared me for most dinners with other families. Nevertheless, occasionally I face families whose traditions cause me to sit around awkwardly. My family is mainly secular and do not perform any religious practices during mealtimes. As such, when I feel very unconformable eating with families who say grace before eating. Although I am not religious, I respect the traditions of these families. Nevertheless, I still like my family's practices because when Grandpa is ready to eat, I'm ready to chow down on that tasty egg fried rice and fish ball soup.
