---
title: Foreign Familiarity
date: 2017-08-31
category: "english"
---


Nkali, as defined by Adichie, means to be greater than another. She further elaborates by talking about how stories depend on power. For example, countries like the United States, a global superpower, have a lot of stories. However, other third world countries have less power and stories, resulting in those countries to have single incomplete stories. I had never thought about stereotypes this way and it actually made much more sense to me. Instead of being racist or ignorant, many of those who perpetuate stereotypes were ill-informed. Additionally, as I read the "The Headstrong Historian" by Chimamanda Adichie, I realized that power in the modern world is not determined by values but by weapons. The villages which Nwamgba, the early protagonist of the story, resides within define power with values. However, seeing that the white men could decimate entire villages, she redefines her own definition of power. As such, Nwamgba decides sends her son to a "white" school because she because they bigger guns, which meant more power, and would allow him to reclaim his late father's stolen land. This occurrence really struck me, reinforcing the fact that the Africans were not enslaved because the Europeans were all holy and moral people. Instead, they used their immoral weaponry to subjugate a potentially more moral race. After reading "The Thing Around Your Neck" by Chimamanda Adichie and discussing the short story, I found myself feeling more sympathy for the boyfriend of the Narrator. Initially, I had thought that he abused his privileges of being white and well-off economically. However, I soon came to realize that sometimes we, myself included, can be blind to our own privileges. The narrator, after learning that her boyfriend declined attending law school and the chance to spend time with his family at a "small" cabin, despises her boyfriend's actions despite his privilege. Her boyfriend however, being from a different world and having more privileges, may have not realized the errors of his ways and did not due so with bad intentions. In retrospect, the reading of Adichie's book, her TED talk, and the discussion of her book has changed my views on power, stories, and privilege. This book, written through the eyes of a foreigner, has made me discover foreign things about what I consider familiar.
