---
title: i love 鱼丸汤!
date: 2018-03-14
category: "english"
---

According to my parents, my family has long been apart of the ancestry of Han peoples in Wenzhou, China. In the city of Wenzhou, people can find many delicious street foods and illegal fireworks. Since I was born in Wenzhou, my immigration to the United States scared me. For the first few months, I longed to return home where I could order fish ball soup every day. In America, my only food choices were hot dogs, pizza, and MORE PIZZA. However, as time went by, I become accustomed to America. When I returned to Wenzhou last winter break, I cringed at the dirty streets and cumbersome smoke which filled the air. The city which I used to call home had become as foreign to me as America once was. Prolonged exposure in the United States had changed me. My father, spending a sizeable chunk of his life in Wenzhou, now also views China an undesirable place to visit. Over the ten years he spent in the United States, he has changed his culture as well. Evidently, being born in a place does not necessarily mean that you were supposed to stay there. Furthermore, I have not yet noticed myself deviate from who I identified myself as because I am usually well aware of who I am and the actions I take. However, others may disagree, especially when you ask them if I am funny. Moreover, "heritage" is the history behind my ancestry, the stories of my late relatives who lived in Wenzhou, China. On the other hand, "tradition" refers to everyday practices those in my family and earlier ancestors partook in. Some of these traditions may include speaking Wenzhounese (considered the devil's language), eating fish ball soup late at night, and giving red pockets every new lunar year. In contrast, the culture in America is different with English, late night pizza, and gifts from a bearded man who breaks into your house late at night. Consequently, my relatives, who had spent much of their lives in a China, faced difficulties in adopting American culture and thus influenced my development in the American landscape. Due to the massive emphasis on education in their culture, my parents pushed me to academics despite a lesser focus on education in America. On the bright side, I developed an interest in the academic realm and continued in that direction. Thanks, culture clash!
