---
title: Reflections Upon an Uncommonly Reflected Topic
date: 2017-09-21
category: "english"
---

Despite the many individuals who believe that racism has become history along with MLK, the institutionalized racism of today grows strong and arguably more impactful than those of the past. Prior to reading the article and video, I had already been exposed to the institutionalized racism such as the case of Eric Garner, where an unarmed black man was tackled by multiple police officers which fatally choked him. However, I did not recognize that institutionalized racism spread way beyond police brutality in jobs, schools, and courts. Not only did these conventions covertly segregate African Americans, they prevented any hope of reformation. By forcing African Americans into poor neighborhoods and reinforcing segregation in schools, many African Americans lacked access to quality education which could help them gain wealth and influence. These immoral acts can be seen in ‘America’ by Claude McKay where the narrator describes the “give and take” aspect of America. At that time period, racism had existed explicitly with black individuals forced to the back of the bus. In contrast, as mentioned in the article, racism today exists covertly with the facade of tolerance. In addition to covert segregation, the media has depicted Africans in a negative light in order to underpin institutionalized racism. The chapter ‘Crime in the News’ within the book “Culture of Fear” by Barry Glassner demonstrates the media’s effectiveness in manipulating the populace about Halloween candy scares, street crime, work violence, and elderly abandonment. The media also used stereotypical depictions of African Americans to instill a fear which resulted in an ensuring institutionalized racism. Similar to many debunked scares in Glassner’s book, the media’s depiction of African Americans are simply stereotypical and generally untrue. Nevertheless, they, like the Halloween candy, street crime, work violence, and elderly abandonment scares have already convinced many Americans of the false yet scary characterizations of African Americans.
