---
title: "In a World of Men, Count woMEn TOO"
date: 2018-01-18
category: "english"
---

Despite movements in the twentieth century which fought for woman's rights and against a male-dominated society, the continued actions and sexist opinions of the general male population prevent the establishment of a truly equal society and result in movements such as #MeToo, which centers on empowering women to speak out about their abuse. Although women are no longer publically oppressed, behind the scenes, they are belittled in more insidious ways. This discreet sexism appears most prominently in Hollywood where men use their status and power to sexually assault women. Harvey Weinstein, arguably the instigator of the #MeToo movement, sums this imbalance of power up perfectly when he tells one of his victims, "this is how things work in Hollywood and all actresses who'd made it did it this way." The victims, hoping to survive in Hollywood's competitive market and fearing the consequences of combatting the historically more powerful men, remain silent and are taken advantage of by men like Weinstein. Moreover, in addition to being physically assaulted, the public image of women are currently under assault. Today's culture and media reinforce the importance of women's appearance. Commercials and clothing brands often feature models who strictly diet, workout, and apply layers on layers of makeup. Consequently, the general public is coerced into demeaning women who are not "model-worthy." For instance, in the 2016 election, male commentators focused more on Hillary Clinton's "shrill" voice over than her plans to improve the country. Katherine, a "shrewd" and vocal woman in _The Taming of the Shrew_ by William Shakespeare, would likely condemn these sexist actions directed towards women and promote the #MeToo movement. In the novel, she argues with men who have the slightest intention of disrespecting her. In contrast, her husband Petruchio, a "gold-digger", would chide the #MeToo movement because he claims Katherine as his property after they wed. Furthermore, whether the characters agree with this movement or not, men and women are still unequal in today's society. Many men are ignorant and often fail to acknowledge the abilities of women. By encouraging women to speak up through movements such as #MeToo, we taking back the power from men such as Harvey Weinstein and putting it into the hands of women who have been oppressed since the agricultural revolution. Additionally, the larger presence of woman voices shifts their portrayal in a male-dominated media and culture. If we take these courses of actions, we may create a society where women no longer have to say "me too."
