---
title: A See-Through Mirror
date: 2017-10-12
category: "english"
---

Initially, the fact that I had to write essays again daunted me. After a long summer filled with computer language, I had forgotten entirely about English. As such, the first-in-class essay was stressful and caused me to doubt my writing abilities. For instance, I completely forgot how to write a thesis statement "well." However, after the thesis workshop and over the course of writing multiple blogs, my confidence in writing returned. Likewise, I never really understood how to make my essays flow correctly. Like this, the second workshop about transition/topic sentences further boosted my confidence. Consequently, the second in-class essay felt less stressing, resulting in a smile to appear as I walked out the classroom. Nevertheless, there was still a sliver of imperfection within the essay which bothered me. Despite having an "improved" thesis and topic/transition sentences, I feet that my work is not up to par with those viewed as "good/great" in the workshops. The thesis and topic/transition sentences that I had written were able to further my points but seemed unsophisticated. The body paragraphs had an implicit "transition," the topic sentences may not have covered the summary of the entire paragraphs, and the thesis not as strong as it should be. This unsophistication could have been the result of a "lack" of preparation. For me to truly write "good," I often spend multiple hours just thinking. In the case of the second in-class essay, I did not brainstorm as long as usual, but I felt that I had written a decent essay. In short, my writing has seemingly improved this year, and I hope that throughout writing more blogs, in-class essays, reading more literature, and paying attention to writing workshops will enhance my current writing skills.
