---
title: Red Pants
date: 2018-2-15
category: "english"
---

For much of humanity's collective history, eyewitness testimonies were used to indict individuals. Until recent technological innovation and the discovery of unconscious bias, incrimination through eyewitnesses acted as the best choice. As a result, innocent people were often punished due to the unreliable memory of a witness. On the flip side, the guilty can elude the court, scott-free. Inaccurate recollections are prevalent in Gabriel Garcia Marquez' _Chronical of a Death Foretold_ where the townsfolk provide the narrator with many differing accounts surrounding the death of Santiago Nasar. The characters within the novella may seem foolish as they are unable to recall details about the murder. However, their unreliable memories are more fact than fiction. For instance, when Mr. Paulsen walked in and asked for a Russian novel, my English class assumed that he was just doing English teacher things. However, 15 minutes later Mr. McCandless gave us a worksheet and wanted us to remember details about Mr. Paulsen's visit. Although Mr. Paulsen's Russian moment did not involve a murder scheme or occur 27 years ago, my whole class still unsuccessfully recalled details of his interruption. Similarly, the NSF video's initial test almost made me incriminate an innocent man. The strange unreliability of our memories may be attributed to the subconscious memory fabrication by our brains. These false memories transpire most often in situations where the witness has a "multiple choice" of suspects. The witness develops a mindset where there must be a correct answer which causes their minds to create bogus recollections to force a decision. Also, our subconscious may inaccurately recollect to escape embarrassment or put ourselves in a good light. Multiple individuals within the novella state their failed attempts to save Santiago or their worry as they discover the murder plot. Consequently, readers question their truth because Santiago Nasar seemed to die despite the large magnitude of individuals who knew of the murder beforehand. Without a doubt, our human memory is, to put it nicely, "trash." Instead of shaming characters who could not remember a tragedy many years ago, we should first ask ourselves why we could not remember the color of Mr. Paulsen's stylish pants.
