---
title: The Right Way to Write
date: 2017-09-14
category: "english"
---

When I heard that I had to complete an in-class essay, I panicked, hoping for the words “fake news” to reveal itself. Nonetheless, it was real and I had to prepare for it. Although I have generally improved upon my writing, I still believe that I write mindlessly. The structure of the essay, essay prompts, and thesis statements continue to elude my understanding. I spent roughly two hours contemplating the first prompt given for the in-class essay and a few more hours to give my essay a general structure. As a result, in-class essays in which I am not given enough preparation time are written mindlessly and in ways which I “go with the flow”. Even in untimed essays, I occasionally find myself writing without much thought. The wording of some prompts or my sheer inability to connect my writing frustrates me tremendously, which create these papers. After I finished the in-class essay, I felt relief and disappointment. Despite the many hours I spent working on my theses, I genuinely did not believe that my paper could be labeled as “good”. Simply put, I did not fully understand the prompt or had the experience to write a truly good thesis statement, leading to problems within the entire essay. The thesis statement presentation which followed the essay, however, helped clarify some issues I had with thesis statements, albeit not entirely. Consequently, when I was given the rare opportunity to revise my essay, I immediately started reread it. It was not the best essay in the world, however, it was not as bad I had believed it to be. Nevertheless, I revised parts which I felt required more work and clarification. Afterwards, I felt more confident in my work but continued to believe that there were errors that I had to fix. In short, I know how to write, I just need the well added at the end.
